## Definition of module
* A **mudule** over $R$ is an abelian group $M$, endowed with an action of $R$. The left action of $r\in R$ on $m\in m$ is denoted $rm$, and it satisfy axioms below:
	* $(r_1 + r_2)m = r_1m + r_2m$
	* $1m = m$ and $(r_1r_2)m = r_1(r_2m)$
	* $r(m_1 + m_2) = rm_1 + rm_2$

* Assume $M$ is a abelian group. Then $\mathsf{End}_{Ab}M$  is a ring in a nature way. A left-module structure of a ring $R$ on $M$ is then simply a homomorphism of rings: $$\sigma:R\rightarrow \mathsf{End}_{Ab} M$$
* Assume $M$ is a abelian group. Then a left-module structure of a ring $R$ on $M$ is then a functuin$$\rho:R\times M\rightarrow M$$satisfying the following requirements: $(\forall r,s \in R)(\forall m,n \in M)$:
	* $\rho(r,m+n) = \rho(r,m)+\rho(r,n)$
	* $\rho(r+s,m) = \rho(r,m)+\rho(s,m)$
	* $\rho(rs,m) = \rho(r,\rho(s,m))$
	* $\rho (1,m) = m$-

>The distinction between left- and right-modules will be immaterial if $R$ is commutative. 
>They are equal. Proof is trivial. Just let $ρ(r, m) = σ(r)(m)=rm$.
## Some basic conclution.
* $(\forall m \in M)0_rm = 0_m$
	Proof: $(\forall m \in M):0_rm +0_rm = 0_rm \Rightarrow 0_rm = 0_m$ 
* $(\forall m \in M)(-1)_rm = -m$
	Proof: $(\forall m \in M):(-1)_rm +1_rm = 0_rm = 0_m \Rightarrow (-1)_rm = -m$ 
## Remark
* Every abelian group is a $\mathbb Z$-module, in exactly one way. Hence we naturely use $na$ for $n \in \mathbb Z$ and $a\in M$ to describe the action.
* Every ring $R$ itself is a $R$ module in natural way.
* Every ideal and quotient ring of a ring $R$ is a $R$-module in a natural way
# Homomorphism of R-module
## Definition: Homomorphism of R-module
A homomorphism of $R$-modules is a homomorphism of (abelian) groups which is compatible with the module structure. That is, if $M$, $N$ are $R$-modules and$\varphi$ : $M$ → $N$ is a function, then $\varphi$ is a homomorphism of $R$-modules if and only if
* **Group Homomorphism for $+$**: $(\forall m_1,m_2\in M): \varphi (m_1+m_2) = \varphi(m_1) + \varphi (m_2)$
* $(\forall r\in R)(\forall m\in M): \varphi (rm) = r\varphi (m)$
>Remark:
>* $R$-module can compose: $\varphi \in \hom(M,N)\land \psi \in \hom(N,O)\Rightarrow \psi \circ \varphi \in \hom(M,O)$  
## Definition: Kernel and image object:
Assume $\varphi :M\rightarrow N$ is a $R$-module homomorphism, we define kernel and image **object**:$$\mathrm{Ker} \varphi  := \{m\in M|\varphi (m) = 0\}$$$$\mathrm{Im} \varphi  := \{n\in N|\exists m\in M,\varphi (m) = n\}$$
## Definition: Submodule 
A submodule $N$ of an $R$-module $M$ is a  **+ subgroup** of $M$ which satisfy: $\forall r\in R,n\in N: rn \in N$. It is easy to see that the action of $R$ on $N$ form a $R$-module.
>Remark: 
>* Every ideal $I$ of ring $R$ is a $R$-submodule of $R$ 
>*  Both kernel and image of an $R$-module Homomorphism are submodule.
> * Assume $S\in R$ is a subset of $R$, $M$ is a $R$-module. Then $SM:=\{rm|r\in S,m\in M\}$ is a submodule of $M$
## Definition: Coset of a submodule and quotient 
Assume $N$ is a submodule of $M$, we define:$$a\sim b\Leftrightarrow a-b\in N$$
It is trivial that $\sim$ is a equivalent relation. The equivalent class is: $$a+N:=\{m\in M|m-a \in N\}$$
We can easily define $$(a+N) + (b+N):=(a+b)+N$$$$a\cdot(b+N) := ab+N$$These operation is well defined. It is trivial to prove $\{a+N|a\in M\}$ endowed with $+,\cdot$ form a module. It is called the quotient module $M/N$. The map $$\varphi : M\rightarrow M/N:a\rightarrow a+N$$ called quotient map. It is trivial to prove $\varphi$ is a $R$-module homomorphism.

## Definition: Cokernel object
Assume $\varphi :M\rightarrow N$ is a $R$-module homomorphism, we define:$$\mathrm{Cok} \varphi:=N/\mathrm{ker}\varphi$$It is the cokernel of $\varphi$

# Product and coproduct in $R-\mathrm{mod}$
## Product and coproduct of two object 
Assume $M$ and $N$ are two $R$-module. Then $M\oplus N:=\{(m,n)|m\in M,n\in N\}$, endowed with
* $\pi_{M} := (m,n) \rightarrow m$
* $\pi_{N} := (m,n) \rightarrow n$
* $i_{M} :=m \rightarrow (m,0)$
* $i_{N}:=m \rightarrow (0,n)$
* $(m,n)+(m',n') := (m+m',n+n')$
* $r(m,n):=(rm,rn)$
It is trivial to verify they satisfy the requirement for product and coproduct
## Arbitrary product and coproduct 
Assume $X$ be a set, $\mathrm I$ be the discrete category generated by $X$, $\mathscr F:\mathrm{I}\rightarrow R\mathrm{-mod}$ be a functor(Hence there is a functon $g:X\rightarrow Y$ such that $g(x) = \mathscr F(I_x)$ by **ZFC**. Then by **AC** the coproduct$$\coprod_{I\in \mathsf I}\mathscr F(I):=\{f|f:x\rightarrow y\in\mathscr F(x)\text{ and }f(x)\neq0 \text{ for at most finite element of }X\}$$and the product$$\prod_{I\in \mathsf I}\mathscr F(I):=\{f|f:x\rightarrow  y\in \mathscr F(x)\}$$
exists. We define a $R$-module structure on them: 
* $f+f':=x\rightarrow f(x)+f'(x)$
* $r(f+f'):= x\rightarrow rf(x)+rf'(x)$
* $i_x:=m\rightarrow (\lambda x'. m \text{ for } x'=x\text{ and } f(x') = 0 \text{ for } x' \neq x)$
* $\pi_x:=f\rightarrow f(x)$
Then the product and coproduct satisfy the requirement for category product and coproduct


# $R-\mathrm{mod}$ category 

## Category of module
The composition of two $R$-module homomorphisms is an $R$-module homomorphism and it is associative. $1_M:=M\rightarrow M : m\rightarrow m$ work as identity. Hence $R$-module form a [[Basic Category#Definition: Category|category]]: $R$-mod.

## Remark 
* The category $Z$-Mod of $Z$-modules is ‘the same as’ the category Ab
* If R = k is a field, R-modules are called **$k$-vector spaces**. The category of vector spaces over a field $k$  is called ‘$k$-Vect’. Morphisms in $k$-Vect are often called **linear maps**.

## Lemma: $R-\mathrm{mod}$ category is an abelian category
Let $\varphi+\psi := x\rightarrow \varphi(x)+\psi(x)$. It is trivial to proof the existence of zero object and zero morphism. Hence $\hom_{R-\mathrm {mod}} (M,N)$ form a abelian group, and composition is bilinear. Product and coproduct exist in $R-\mathrm{mod}$, hence $R-\mathrm{mod}$ is an additive category. 
For all morphism $\varphi \in \hom_{R-\mathrm{mod}}(M,N)$ in $R-\mathrm{mod}$ category, we can easily define the kernel **morphism**: $\mathrm{ker}\varphi := \mathrm{Ker}\varphi \rightarrow M$ be injection of sets, $\mathrm{coker}\varphi :=  N \rightarrow \mathrm{Cok}\varphi$
be the quotient. It is trivial to verify they satisfy universer properties for ker and coker, and $R-\mathrm{mod}$ is really an abelian category.


## Classification of injective and surjective morphism 
By [[Additive Categories#Lemma: Classify of monomorphism and epimorphism by kernel and cokernel]]: For a morphism $\varphi \in \hom_{R-\mathrm{mod}}$, they are equivalent:
* $\varphi$ is a injection 
* $\mathrm{Ker} \varphi = 0$ 
* $\mathrm{ker} \varphi = 0$
* $\varphi$ is a monomorphism 
For a morphism $\varphi \in \hom_{R-\mathrm{mod}}$, they are equivalent:
* $\varphi$ is a surjection 
* $\mathrm{Im} \varphi = 0$ 
* $\mathrm{im} \varphi = 0$
* $\varphi$ is a epimorphism 






























