# Filter and filter basis
## Definition: Filter
A non-empty family $\mathcal F$ of subsets of a set $X$ is called a **filter** on $X$ if
* $\varnothing\notin\mathcal F$
* $F\in \mathcal F,F\subseteq G\Rightarrow G\in\mathcal F$ 
* $F_0,F_1\in \mathcal F\Rightarrow F_0\cap F_1 \in\mathcal F$
## Definition: Filter Basis
	just kick out law 2
A non-empty family $\mathcal F'$ of subsets of a set $X$ is called a **filter basis** on $X$ if
* $\varnothing\notin\mathcal F'$
* $F_0,F_1\in \mathcal F'\Rightarrow F_0\cap F_1 \in\mathcal F'$
## Filter basis generate filter
Assume $\mathcal F'$ is a Filter basis. Define $\mathcal F:=\{G|\exists F\in \mathcal F',F\subseteq G\}$. We say $\mathcal F'$ **generate** $\mathcal F$
# Subfilter and subfilter-basis
## Definition: Subfilter
$\mathcal F$ is a **subfilter** of $\mathcal G$ if and only if $\mathcal G\subseteq\mathcal F$. Hence if $\mathcal F$ is a subfilter of $\mathcal G$ and $\mathcal G$ is a subfilter of $\mathcal F$, then $\mathcal F = \mathcal G$. 
**Remember subfilter have more chance for convergence**
## Definition: Subfilter-basis
1. $\mathcal F'$ is a **subfilter-basis** of $\mathcal G'$ if and only if $\mathcal F',\mathcal G'$ generete $\mathcal F,\mathcal G$ and $\mathcal F$ is a subfilter of $\mathcal G$. 
2. $\mathcal F'$ is a **subfilter-basis** of $\mathcal G'$ if and only if $$\forall G\in\mathcal G',\exists F\in\mathcal F':F\subseteq G$$
>They are equivalent. Proof:
>* $\mathbb1\Rightarrow\mathbb2$ Assume $G\in\mathcal G'$, then $G\in \mathcal G$, hence $G\in \mathcal F$. So there exists $F\in\mathcal F'$ such that $F\subseteq G$
>* $\mathbb2\Rightarrow\mathbb1$ Assume $G\in \mathcal G$, then there exist $G_0\in\mathcal G'$ such that $G_0\subseteq G$. By $2$ there will also be $F_0\in\mathcal F',F_0\subseteq G_0$. Hence $F_0\subseteq G$ and $G\in \mathcal F$.
## Equivalent of filter basis.
Two filter basis $\mathcal F_1'$ and $\mathcal F'_2$ is equar if and only if $\mathcal F_1'$ and $\mathcal F_2'$ generate the same filter.
By [[#Definition: Subfilter-basis]], also if and only if $\mathcal F_1'\subseteq\mathcal F_2'$ and $\mathcal F_2'\subseteq\mathcal F_1'$.
# Net
## Definition: Net
Net is a function from a [[Relations#Definition: Directed set|Directed set]] to a topological space.
## Net generate filter
Assume $a:S\rightarrow X$ is a net. Then $a(\{\{x\in X|x\geq m\}|m\in S \})$ is a filter basis. Hence we can define a filter from it. This called **the filter generated by net**
## Filter generate net
Assume $\mathcal F$ is a filter. Then let $I:= \{(S,x)|S \in \mathcal F,x\in S\}$. Give the set the order of inclution. Let $a:I\rightarrow X;(S,x)\rightarrow x$. $a$ is called **the net generated by filter**
## Definition: Subnet of a net
Assume $\{x_i\}_{i\in A}$ and $\{y_i\}_{i\in B}$ are two nets, then $y_\bullet$ is a subnet of $x_{\bullet}\Leftrightarrow$ There exist a **monotone final function** $h:A\rightarrow B$ and $y_i = x_{h(i)}$
* monotone: $i\leq j\Rightarrow h(i)\leq h(j)$ 
* final: $f(B)$ is **cofinal** in $A$.
	*  cofinal: $X$ is cofinal in Y $\Leftrightarrow$ for every $y\in Y$, there exists $x\in X$: $x\geq y$
The final condition can be replaced by:
* Filter generated by $\{y_i\}_{i\in B}$ is a subfilter $\{x_i\}_{i\in A}$
>Proof of equal:
>* $\mathbb 1\rightarrow \mathbb 2$: Assume $f(B)$ is cofinal in $A$. Then for every $a\in A$, there exists $b\in B$: $h(b)\geq a$. Hence $\{y_i|i\geq b\} = \{x_h(i)|i\geq b\} \subseteq \{x_i|i\geq h(b)\} \subseteq \{x_i|i\geq a\}$. Then it followed with the definition of filter
>* $\mathbb 2\rightarrow \mathbb 1$: Assume $a\in A$. There should be $b\in B$ such that $\{y_i|i\geq b\} = \{x_h(i)|i\geq b\}\subseteq \{x_i|i\geq h(b)\} \subseteq \{x_i|i\geq a\}$. Hence let 
# Convergence 
	Convergence is center of analysis. Here we give the most general definition 
## Definition: Filter converges to filter 
A filter $A$ converges to filter $B$ $\Leftrightarrow$ $A$ is a sub filter of $B$. We write:$$\lim \mathcal A = \mathcal B$$
If $A$ or $B$ is filter basis, we replace them with the filter generated by them.
>Notice: In analysis, converges may look like this:
>*For two filter basis $\mathcal  A$ and $\mathcal B$$,\mathcal A$ converges $\mathcal B$ $\Leftrightarrow$ $\forall B\in \mathcal B,\exists A\in \mathcal A,A\subseteq B$. *
>It is easy to see that this definition is equar to $\mathcal A$  is a subfilter-basis  of $\mathcal B$. Hence these two definitions are equal. Our theorem here matchs what convergence means in all analysis.


## Definition: Net converges to filter 
There are two definition for this.
* A net $\{a_i\}_{i\in I}$ converges to a filter $\mathcal F$ $\Leftrightarrow$  $\forall S\in \mathcal F,\exists i_0 \in I,\forall i\in I: i \geq i_0 \Rightarrow a_i \in S$
* A net $\{a_i\}_{i\in I}$ converges to a filter $\mathcal F$ $\Leftrightarrow$ The filter generated by $\{a_i\}_{i\in I}$ is a subfilter of $\mathcal F$

>They are equal. Proof:
>* $\mathbb 1\rightarrow \mathbb 2$: Assume $S\in \mathcal F$, Then there exists $i_0 \in I$ such that $\forall i\in I: i \geq i_0 \Rightarrow a_i \in S$. Now $\{a_i|i\in I: i\geq i_0 \}\in S$. Hence $S$ is in the filter generated by $\{a_i\}_{i\in I}$.
>* $\mathbb 2\rightarrow \mathbb 1$: Assume $S\in \mathcal F$. Then there exists some $i_0\in I$ such that $\{a_i|i\in I: i\geq i_0 \}\in S$. Hence $\forall i\in I: i \geq i_0 \Rightarrow a_i \in S$.
>Hence we can replace the convergence of net with the filter it generates.
